# The Value of Forecast Lead-Time and Skill in the Robustness of Reservoir Management in Multi-Objective Water Systems 

## Kyla Semmendinger (kts48@cornell.edu) and Scott Steinschneider (ss3378@cornell.edu)
### Department of Biological and Environmental Engineering, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY, USA

The sensitivity of optimal system performance to forecast lead-time and skill in multi-objective water reservoirs has been well-established. However, policies identified as optimal under historical conditions may no longer perform optimally under plausible future climate scenarios. It is necessary to explore how policy robustness varies with forecast lead-time and skill in multi-objective water systems to understand how system performance and tradeoffs among system objectives may change in the future as a key component of risk mitigation and management. We explore the sensitivity of policy robustness to forecast lead-time and skill in the outflow management plan of the Lake Ontario - St. Lawrence River (LOSLR) basin. The current regulation plan is the first regulation policy of this system to use water supply forecasts to guide release decisions. The current release policy utilizes forecast information from an AR(1) model at the 12-month ahead lead-time. We create new forecasts at the 1-, 3-, and 6-month ahead lead-time and vary the skill of each lead-time from the baseline AR(1) skill up to a perfect forecast. We employ a multi-objective evolutionary algorithm to discover new policies that utilize the forecast information at each lead-time and skill under historical supply conditions. Policies are optimized to maximize system performance across six objectives (upstream and downstream coastal flooding, commercial navigation costs, hydropower production value, recreational boating benefits, and wetland health and biodiversity). We leverage a researcher-practitioner partnership with LOSLR decision makers to determine satisficing criteria and identify a subset of the optimized policies for each forecast lead-time and skill. These candidate plans are reevaluated under a stochastically generated supply dataset and a climate driven supply dataset to determine the robustness of the policies outside of historical conditions under a wide range of plausible future conditions. These results support decision makers in their review of the current operating policy as well as in the plan formulation and evaluation process in their development of a new operating policy for the LOSLR basin.

